A little deeper study helps you to draw close to Jehovah, the interactions that Jehovah has with its faithful servants.
We think about them, we meditate on them, it actually becomes a personal matter.
Drawing close to God becomes personal, and then we can use that in our circumstances in life.
If we are dealing with a sickness or the illness of a mate, or even with a great tribulation in the offing,
how are we going to handle our relationship with Jehovah? How are we going to stay strong?
Well, we had this beautiful drama, O Jehovah, I trust in you, the Hezekiah drama that we had for our regional convention,
since that is still ringing very clearly in our minds and hearts.
Let's open our Bibles 2 of 2 Kings chapter 19. Let's review a few thoughts from the life of Hezekiah
and that time period with Sinecorib, the King of Assyria, the attack on Jerusalem in the year 732,
and Isaiah's words too has a chia. Again, but with the focus of, how can I draw close to Jehovah God?
What can this account continue to teach me? So, chapter 19, let's start with verse 6.
Isaiah said to them, this is what you should say to your Lord, this is what Jehovah says.
Now, this was to Hezekiah. Do not be afraid, four words, but so powerful. Why?
Because positive assurance has a chia that Sinecorib will be defeated. Do not be afraid,
because I've heard all the things that Sinecorib has said and He's blasphemed me. Do not be afraid.
Think about that. It engenders confidence. It engenders us to approach Jehovah God. He wants to help us.
He wanted to help Hezekiah. He saw his situation. Hezekiah was emerging as one of the greatest kings of all Israel.
He was beating the odds. He had an apostate father. And yet, Jehovah had his eye on Hezekiah and wanted to help him. Do not be afraid.
You see, trusting in Jehovah's has a chia did is an act of worship. It's something that gets Jehovah's blessing.
When Jehovah tells us, under our circumstances, it do not be afraid. I will help you. I want to help you.
That helps us to be loyal to Him. We draw close to Him. Now, when we show loyalty to Jehovah, then He acts in loyalty toward us.
There's an action. It's not passive. He acts in loyalty toward us. He gives us His Holy Spirit.
He draws closer to us. We feel His support. We can sense that He has helped us.
Our personal relationship with Jehovah becomes more keen. You see, and that's because Jehovah is telling us as a heavenly father,
do not be afraid. He did that to Hezekiah, and He does it with us. It's part of drawing close to Him.
Next, Hezekiah senses what really is important, and this is so valuable to you and me. Let's go now to verse 19.
But now, Jehovah, our God, please save us out of His hand. Now, that's Sennacherib's hand. We know that.
So that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone are God, O Jehovah.
So, all the kingdoms of the earth. See, Hezekiah was interested in Jehovah's name, the sanctification of that name.
He was interested in the reputation of Jehovah God. Now, He didn't talk about Himself, but He just spoke about Jehovah God.
And again, that's the lesson that we can learn. If we're going to draw close to Jehovah, we think about His reputation, His name.
We think about the issue of universal sovereignty. We think about what that kingdom is going to do to cleanse the earth.
Now, I know that oftentimes we think about our own suffering, and I need to get into the new world.
And we think about the relief that we're going to have. And that's of course important.
But the core issues, the greater issues, is Jehovah's name, proving the devil a liar, our loyalty at this time.
This is what Jehovah is looking at. This is the real issue.
Imagine, as the Great Tribulation approaches, how delightful, how exciting it's going to be, as we see even the sign of the Son of Man,
there at Matthew 24 and verse 30, some supernatural demonstration display of Christ's kingly power, as Jehovah demonstrates His sovereignty.
It's all the kingdoms of the earth must know that Jehovah is God.
Again, thinking about these things really brings our attention to the important things in life.
And it helps us to draw close to Jehovah God. Let's go a little bit further. Let's look at verse 28.
Now here, Sinecorib is going to learn a big lesson we know.
Verse 28, because your rage, now Jehovah is speaking to Sinecorib, of course, through Isaiah, but because your rage against me and your roaring have reached my ears,
I'm going to put a hook in your nose and a bridle in your lips, and I'm going to lead you back to the way you came right back to Nineveh Sinecorib.
You made a big mistake by planting yourself in the land that I gave my people. You made a big mistake. You shouldn't have done that.
You're used to putting hooks and noses of people and bridles in their lips. Well, I'm going to put a hook in your nose and drag you right back, yank you back to Nineveh.
I mean, this is encouraging. This helps us to see exactly what Jehovah God is going to do through this modern day of Syrian as they try to attack us in the near future.
Whether it be the modern day of Syrian or God of May, God, the king of the north, the kings of the earth, they don't stand a chance.
This helps us to draw close to Jehovah God.
Now verse 29, imagine this time period as we saw through that beautiful drama, how are they going to eat?
What are they going to eat with the Assyrian invasion? It's not possible to have a harvest to sow seed. What would they do?
Verse 29, and this will be a sign, a miraculous sign for you, Ezekiah, this year you will eat what grows on its own.
So imagine that. Jehovah says, don't worry. From those spilled kernels from last year I'm going to have food shoot up from the old grain from last year.
That's amazing, miraculous provision of food. And then notice it goes on and says, and in the second year you will eat grain that sprouts from that.
So again, even in the second year, but what is even more interesting, according to Bible chronology, that second year would be a Sabbath year of the Jubilee cycle.
And the Sabbath year of the Jubilee cycle, the faithful Jews would not be able to plant. They wouldn't sow seed. They would let the land lay dormant or let it rest.
And Jehovah said, I'm still going to provide for you. And then of course it goes on and says, in the third year you can sow seed and reap a harvest.
You see the faith it must have taken on the part of these faithful Jews at that time. Would they really trust that sufficient crops would be available for two years in a row without working their fields? How would you have felt?
Maybe it was going through their minds. Well, we should maybe go to Senekirub. He's offering us food. He's offering us survival. Maybe we should surrender. This was portrayed in the drama so beautifully.
So again, what's the big point for us? Jehovah wants to help us. And we draw close to Jehovah God, knowing that as the great tribulation even approaches, geographical location has no bearing on Jehovah rendering assistance to his people.
But now is the time as we study these accounts, we draw close to Jehovah, we gain confidence trusting him, being loyal, knowing that he will loyally support us under any circumstances.
So meditating on these accounts should help us to continue to stay loyal, not be afraid as God's enemies will not succeed.
Keeping focused that all the kingdoms of the earth must know that Jehovah is God, and that his sovereignty will be the main issue in the universe, and that Jehovah's fatherly eye is upon us as we continue to draw close to God and serve him for an eternity.